Data protection information
Status: 01.08.2024
So that you can understand the processing of your data in connection with your use of the
Ambit-OurSports app (hereinafter "Ambit app"), we would like to provide you with an
overview of this processing. The following data protection information contains general
information about how we handle your data and information about your rights under the
European General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) and the German Federal Data
Protection Act (BDSG).

Table of contents
I. General information
1. Contact us
2. Legal basis
3. Duration of storage
4. Recipient of the data
5. Transfer of data to a third country
6. Data security
7. Your rights
8. Right of objection
9. Changes to our privacy policy
II. Specific data processing
1. Download the Ambit app
2. Technical conditions of use
3. Regular registration
4. Registration via the Apple login
5. Registration via the Google login
6. Creating a user profile
7. Collecting your location data
8. Collecting behavioral data
9. Use of the comment function
10. Contact us
11. Reporting and complaints procedure
12. Research and statistical data
13. Storage in the Google Cloud


I. General Information

1. Contact us
The controller responsible for data processing is
Ludwig-Maximilians-University Munich
Faculty of Psychology & Education
EXIST project CodeXSports
(for the attention of Dr. Philipp Tschochohei)
Geschwister-Scholl-Platz 1
80539 Munich
phone: +49 89 21805201
e-mail: info@ambit-oursports.com
hereinafter referred to as "we" or "us".
Our data protection officer
can be reached at datenschutz@ambit-oursports.com or at our postal address with the addition
"the data protection officer".

2. Legal basis

The data protection term "personal data" refers to all information that relates to a specific or
identifiable person, e.g. name, e-mail address and data on user behavior.
We process personal data in compliance with the relevant data protection regulations, in
particular the GDPR and the BDSG. Data processing by us only takes place on the basis of
legal permission. We only process personal data with your consent (Art. 6 (1) (a) GDPR), for
the performance of a contract to which you are a party or at your request for the
implementation of pre-contractual measures (Art. 6 (1) (b) GDPR), for compliance with a
legal obligation (Art. 6 (1) (c) GDPR) or if the processing is necessary for the purposes of our
legitimate interests or the legitimate interests of a third party, except where such interests are
overridden by your interests or fundamental rights and freedoms which require protection of
personal data (Art. 6 (1) (f) GDPR).

3. Duration of storage

Unless otherwise stated in the following information (under II. Specific data processing), we
only store the data for as long as is necessary to achieve the purpose of processing or to fulfill
our contractual or legal obligations. Such statutory retention obligations may arise in
particular from commercial or tax law regulations.

4. Recipient of the data

We use contracted service providers for individual processing operations. These processing
operations include hosting the application in the Google Cloud, processing reports of illegal
content and internal complaints as well as the possible future moderation of comments using
an AI tool. The service providers only process the data in accordance with explicit
instructions and are contractually obliged to guarantee suitable technical and organizational
measures for data protection. We may also transfer your personal data to bodies such as your
bank, tax advisor/auditor or the tax authorities.

5. Transfer of data to a third country

For the purposes of processing your personal data mentioned in this data protection
information, it may be necessary to transfer the data to a recipient in a third country (i.e.
outside the European Union or the European Economic Area). For some third countries, the
European Commission has decided that they offer an adequate level of data protection (e.g.
Switzerland, Canada, Argentina). Insofar as we transfer data to a third country for which such
an adequacy decision does not exist or recipients do not fulfill certain requirements
formulated in the adequacy decision (e.g. a US recipient does not have certification under the
EU-US Data Privacy Framework), the corresponding data transfer - unless otherwise stated in
this data protection information - is based on a contract between us and the relevant recipient
using the standard data protection clauses of the European Union and, if necessary, further
supplementary measures agreed with the recipient to ensure an adequate level of data
protection. You can request copies of these standard contractual clauses from our data
protection officer.

6. Data security

We take appropriate technical and organizational security precautions to protect your personal
data against accidental or intentional manipulation, loss, destruction or access by unauthorized
persons and to ensure the protection of your rights and compliance with the applicable data
protection regulations of the EU and the Federal Republic of Germany.
Our security measures also include encrypting your data. All information that you enter online
is technically encrypted and only then transmitted. This means that this information cannot be
viewed by unauthorized third parties at any time.
Our data processing and security measures are continuously improved in line with
technological developments.
Our employees are of course bound to confidentiality in writing (data secrecy).

7. Your rights

You can exercise the following rights as a data subject at any time using the contact details of
our data protection officer given above:
• Information about your data stored by us and its processing (Art. 15 GDPR),
• Correction of incorrect personal data (Art. 16 GDPR),
• Deletion of your data stored by us (Art. 17 GDPR),
• Restriction of data processing if we are not yet allowed to delete your data due to legal
obligations (Art. 18 GDPR) and
• Data portability, provided that you have consented to the data processing or have
concluded a contract with us (Art. 20 GDPR)
If you have given us your consent, you can revoke it at any time in accordance with Art. 7
para. 3 GDPR with effect for the future. Such a withdrawal does not affect the lawfulness of
processing based on consent before its withdrawal.
You can contact a supervisory authority at any time with a complaint, e.g. the competent
supervisory authority of the federal state of your residence or the authority responsible for us
as the responsible body. You can find a list of supervisory authorities (for the non-public
sector) with addresses at:
https://www.bfdi.bund.de/DE/Infothek/Anschriften_Links/anschriften_links-node.html.

8. Right of objection

You have the right to object, on grounds relating to your particular situation, to the processing
of personal data concerning you which is based on Article 6(1)(f) GDPR (data processing on
the basis of a balancing of interests).
If you object, we will no longer process your personal data unless we can demonstrate
compelling legitimate grounds for the processing which override your interests, rights and
freedoms or for the establishment, exercise or defense of legal claims.
Please address your objection to our data protection officer.

9. Change to our data protection information

We reserve the right to adapt this data protection notice in order to always comply with
current legal requirements or to implement changes to our services in the data protection
notice, e.g. when introducing new services. The new data protection information will then
apply to your next visit.

II. Specific Data Processing

1. Download the Ambit app

When downloading the Ambit app from the Apple App Store or Google Play Store, the
personal data required for this is transferred to the respective store. This includes in particular
the user name, e-mail address and customer number of your user account, the time of the
download, the serial number of the end device (IMEI), the mobile phone number (MSISDN),
the MAC address for WLAN use and the unique number of the network subscriber (IMSI) or
your Apple ID.
We are not responsible for the data processing associated with downloading the app, but the
respective app store provider is the controller within the meaning of the GDPR.
2. Technical conditions of use
When you use the Ambit app, we collect the personal data described below in order to
technically enable the convenient use of the app's functions and to ensure its stability and
security:
• - IP address
• - Date and time of the request
• - Time zone difference to Greenwich Mean Time (GMT)
• - Content of the request (specific page)
• - Access status/HTTP status code
• - Amount of data transferred in each case
• - Browser
• - Operating system and its interface
• - Language and version of the browser software.
We also need the device identification, unique number of the end device (IMEI =
International Mobile Equipment Identity), unique number of the network subscriber (IMSI =
International Mobile Subscriber Identity), mobile phone number (MSISDN), MAC address
for WLAN use, name of your mobile end device, e-mail address].
Processing is carried out in accordance with Art. 6 para. 1 lit. f GDPR on the basis of our
legitimate interest in the functionality, stability and security of the Ambit app.
Recipients of the data may be technical service providers who act as processors for the
storage, operation and maintenance of the app. If data is part of a criminal investigation, we
will pass it on to the relevant authorities.
The data is deleted as soon as it is no longer required for the purpose for which it was
collected. This is generally the case for the data used to use the app when the respective
session has ended.
If the data is stored in log files, this is the case after 14 days at the latest. Storage beyond this
period is possible. In this case, the IP addresses of the users are anonymized so that it is no
longer possible to identify the accessing client. Information that is suspected of being part of a
criminal offense is stored for longer until it is passed on to the relevant authorities.
The provision of the aforementioned personal data is neither legally nor contractually
required. However, our app cannot be used without it.
3. Regular registration
When you register and each time you register again, the following data, among others, may be
processed:
• E-mail address and/or user name
• A checksum of the password you have assigned
• The time of your registration and the last change to your user data
• Logging of accesses
• Logging of failed login attempts and software errors
• Notifications received and information on which notification has already been
seen/clicked on
This data is stored and only used to ensure and simplify organizational processes.
Processing is carried out in accordance with Art. 6 para. 1 lit. f GDPR on the basis of our
legitimate interest in the functionality of the Ambit app.
Recipients of the data may be technical service providers who act as processors for the
storage, operation and maintenance of the app.
The data will be deleted as soon as it is no longer required for the purpose for which it was
collected.
The provision of the aforementioned personal data is necessary in order to use our app.

4. Registration via the Apple login

We offer you the option of registering via your Apple account. If you make use of this option,
we will receive the data required for registration from Apple. In this respect, a data transfer
takes place. Apple gives you the option of sharing your e-mail address with us or hiding it. If
you hide your e-mail address, we will receive a unique, randomly generated e-mail address
from Apple for the creation and use of your Ambit account. We will send our
communications to this email address and Apple will automatically forward them to your
email address on file with Apple, unless you have deactivated the forwarding of Ambit
emails.
We have no influence on the scope of the data collected by Apple using the Apple login. If
you do not want Apple to collect data about you in connection with your use of our services
and use it for its own purposes, you should not use the Apple login.
You can disconnect your Ambit account from your Apple account at any time in our app. In
this case, we need the access data described above under point 3 from you, i.e. you must
provide alternative access data.
You can find more information on the processing and use of your data by Apple when using
the "Sign in via Apple" function at https://support.apple.com/de-de/102609
5. Registration via the Google login
We also offer you the option of registering with us via your Google account. If you make use
of this option, we will receive the data required for registration from Google (e-mail address,
name and Google Account profile picture). In this respect, a data transfer takes place.
We have no influence on the scope of the data collected by Google using Google Login. If
you do not want Google to collect data about you in connection with your use of our services
and use it for its own purposes, you should not use the Google login.
You can disconnect your Ambit account from your Google account at any time in our app. In
this case, we need the access data described above from you.
Further information on the processing and use of your data by Google when using the "Sign in
via Google" function can be found at
https://support.google.com/accounts/answer/12921417?hl=de

6. Creating a user profile

When using the Ambit app for the first time, you will be asked for general information and
preferences regarding your sporting activities and sports partners, namely
• Names,
• Gender,
• Age,
• Primary sport,
• Frequency of exercise per week,
• Self-assessment of the level of play,
• Goals as part of your sporting activities,
• Preferences for the recommendation of partners
• etc.
Mandatory information is regularly marked with an *. The information provided can be
adjusted or added to the profile at any time.
Apart from the mandatory information, providing the requested data is voluntary and you can
decide for yourself which other users of the Ambit app you want to make the data accessible
to by setting your profile as "private" or "public".
The user profile data you provide will be used by us to recommend suitable partners and
teams for sporting activities ("events") posted by you or to recommend you to other users as a
partner or part of a team for events.
If you only partially fill out the user profile, you will not be able to use the app's functions in
optimal quality.
If or to the extent that you allow access to the data, the Ambit app will only access your data
and transfer it to our server to the extent necessary to provide the aforementioned
functionality.
The collection and processing of your user profile data is based on your consent or for the
fulfillment of a contract to which you are a party (Art. 6 para. 1 lit. a or lit. b GDPR).
Your data will be deleted by us if it is no longer required to provide the services or if you
revoke your right to use it and there are no legal obligations to retain it. If you delete your
account, your data will only be used in the system in anonymized form (e.g. with the display
"deleted user").
Apart from the mandatory information, the provision of profile data is voluntary. Without the
provision and use of your profile data, optimal use of the Ambit app is not possible.

7. Collecting your location data

Our offer includes the option of recommending sports activities that are tailored to your
location. You can only use this function after you have agreed via a pop-up that we may
collect your location data via GPS and your IP address in anonymized form for the purpose of
providing the service. You can allow or revoke this function at any time in the settings of the
Ambit app or the operating system. Your location will only be transmitted to us if you use
functions when using the app that we can only offer you if we know your location.
Your location data will not be used to create movement profiles beyond your current location.
The collection and processing of your location data is based on your consent (Art. 6 para. 1
lit. a GDPR).
The provision of your location data is voluntary, solely on the basis of your consent. Without
the provision of your location data, we cannot make you any location-based offers.

8. Collecting behavioral data

We also collect so-called user behavior data, i.e. information about the use of the app and
interactions with the recommendation system. We use the collected behavioural data to
generate personalized recommendations for users.
The collection and processing is carried out in accordance with Art. 6 para. 1 sentence 1 lit. b
GDPR for the fulfillment of a contract to which you are a party (see General Terms of Use
section 4), or in accordance with Art. 6 para. 1 lit. f GDPR on the basis of our legitimate
interest in the functionality of the Ambit app.
Without the provision of your behavioral data, it is not possible to use the Ambit app
properly.

9. Use of the comment function

You can make public comments on events in the Ambit app. Your comment will be published
with your specified user name at the respective event. You will be informed when another
user has left a comment on your comment.
When you post a comment, we save your user name and e-mail address. This storage is
necessary for us to be able to defend ourselves against liability claims in the event of possible
publication of illegal content. We need your e-mail address in order to contact you if a third
party objects to your comment as unlawful. Comments are not checked before publication.
We reserve the right to delete comments if they are objected to as illegal by third parties.
The collection and processing takes place on the basis of Art. 6 para. 1 sentence 1 lit. b and f
GDPR.

10. Contact us

When you contact us by e-mail, your e-mail address or contact details and the content of your
request will be stored by us in order to answer your request.
The data is processed on the basis of a contract (Art. 6 para. 1 lit. b GDPR).
We delete the data collected in this context when storage is no longer required for the purpose
of processing.
The provision of the aforementioned personal data is necessary so that we can respond to your
request.

11. Reporting and complaints procedure

If a user reports possible illegal content or violations of our Terms of Use or complains about
our customer service, the following information may be collected:
• Name or address data provided in the notification or complaint
• the last chat messages exchanged as part of the notification of a chat
• Content of any attachment uploaded as part of the report/complaint (such as profile
pictures, chat messages and/or comments).
The data is processed to fulfill our legal obligations under the Digital Services Act, in
particular Art. 20 DSA.
We delete the data collected in this context when storage is no longer required for the purpose
of processing.
The provision of the aforementioned personal data is necessary so that we can comply with
our legal obligations.

12. Research and statistical data

All user data (user profile and behavioral data) is used in completely anonymized form for the
research of the LMU project CodeXSports (Ambit app).
In addition, user data relating to individual sports facilities is evaluated in a completely
anonymized form, differentiated by sports facility, and transmitted to the respective sports
facility operators on request.

13. Google Cloud

We use Google Cloud, a service provided by the US company Google LLC, to store data
relating to the Ambit app. Google Ireland Ltd (Gordon House, Barrow Street, Dublin 4,
Ireland) is responsible for all Google services in Europe. We have concluded an order
processing contract with Google Ireland Ltd. in accordance with Art. 28 GDPR, which forms
the data protection basis for our customer relationship with Google.
Google Ireland Ltd. may also process your data in the USA. However, Google participates in
the EU-US Data Privacy Framework, which regulates the correct and secure transfer of
personal data from EU citizens to the US. You can find more information on this at
https://commission.europa.eu/document/fa09cbad-dd7d-4684-ae60-be03fcb0fddf_en.
Google Ireland Ltd. also uses so-called standard contractual clauses in its data processing
agreements (see Art. 46 (2) and (3) GDPR). Standard contractual clauses are model
contractual clauses provided by the EU Commission to ensure that the data processing of EU
citizens also complies with EU data protection standards when it is transferred to and
processed in third countries (such as the US). The standard contractual clauses are based on
an implementing decision of the EU Commission, see https://eur-
lex.europa.eu/eli/dec_impl/2021/914/oj?locale=en.
By participating in the EU-US Data Privacy Framework and by using the standard contractual
clauses, Google Ireland Ltd. undertakes to comply with the EU level of data protection when
processing your data, even if the data is processed in the US. You can find out more about
how the data is used when stored in Google Cloud in Google's privacy policy at
https://policies.google.com/privacy?hl=de
